(CNN Business) Amazon is gearing up for one of its largest shopping events of the year, which is set to begin Tuesday. When layered on top of the ongoing pandemic and followed closely by the start of the holiday shopping season, some workers are worried about risks to their health and their jobs.

CNN Business spoke to ten Amazon warehouse employees about pandemic-related conditions and what it has been like to work past Prime Days and holiday seasons. Some spoke on the record, while others spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of retaliation. Attitudes about pandemic-related policies varied depending on which warehouse, and which department, workers were in.

At one warehouse, workers expressed concerns about the ability to follow social distancing guidelines and being reprimanded if unable to do so. In others, workers were stressed in anticipation of the extra work.

Under normal circumstances, Amazon warehouses are teeming with activity and workers, but demand spurred by the pandemic sent that into overdrive. Beginning in March, Amazon hired 175,000 temporary employees to keep up with the surge in orders, later stating it would keep 70% of them permanently. In September, the company announced plans to hire an additional 100,000 employees across its operations, telling Reuters it was still evaluating demand for seasonal employment. Last year it announced it would bring on 200,000 workers for seasonal needs.

Following basic Covid-19 virus precautions, such as maintaining six feet of social distancing, can prove increasingly difficult in certain parts of's facilities as more workers are on-site and as the volume of packages increases, six of the workers told CNN Business. So too can being conscientious about sanitizing work areas while keeping up with the pace.

Mandatory overtime is enacted during busy periods including around Prime Day, according to the workers who spoke to CNN Business, with employees at three locations saying overtime is scheduled for this week at their facilities. That means workers will be putting in more hours and spending more time inside the warehouses, making conditions evermore important. When asked whether the mandatory overtime was policy across all its facilities, Amazon did not respond.

During the pandemic, Gabby, an associate at an Amazon facility in Hawthorne, California who asked that only her first name be used and who has participated in a walkout over working conditions, said she has at times sacrificed speed in order to maintain social distancing or sanitize, and has received verbal warnings for not keeping up her productivity rate, something Amazon is known to track closely among its workers. Navigating this balance could become even more difficult as things pick up for workers during Prime Day and the holiday season.

For months, Amazon refused to disclose the number of cases among its workforce. Earlier this month, after pressure from workers and more than a dozen attorneys general , Amazon revealed that nearly 20,000 of its front-line US employees at Amazon and Whole Foods have tested positive or been presumed positive for the coronavirus. In a blog post, the company said it did a "thorough analysis of data on all 1,372,000 Amazon and Whole Foods Market front-line employees across the US employed at any time from March 1 to September 19, 2020." It broke out the data state-by-state, something the attorneys general asked for in a May letter to Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos and Whole Foods Market CEO John Mackey.

CNN Business requested a further breakdown of cases between Wholes Foods and Amazon workers to understand how those rates compare with the general population. Amazon declined.

Terrell Worm, an Amazon associate at JFK8 in Staten Island who has also participated in a walkout, told CNN Business that knowing the aggregate number "doesn't really help" workers like him. "I'm worried about my area -- that's what I want to know, how many cases in my building?"

While Amazon notifies workers about confirmed cases where they work, an Amazon spokesperson confirmed to CNN Business in May that it changed an earlier approach and stopped including numbers when confirming cases to workers.

"If Amazon wanted to illuminate the actual risk of Covid-19 and their success in controlling virus transmission, it would provide that actual number and rate of cases from each fulfillment center and Whole Food store," said David Michaels, former head of OSHA under the Obama administration and a professor at George Washington University.

"Nothing is more important than the safety of our teams. We have redeployed a large number of our data scientists, technologists, and operations employees to focus on Covid-19 and ensure the safety of our workforce, including thousands of individuals on our health and safety teams," Amazon spokesperson Kelly Cheeseman said in a statement at the time.

With their health on the line, worker activism has increased at a number of Amazon facilities during the pandemic -- and with it, claims by workers that Amazon is retaliating, allegations the company has denied.

The latest example was a walkout at the Shakopee, Minnesota, facility earlier this month over the firing of Farhiyo Warsame, who said she was fired at the end of September for allegedly spending too much "time off task." She alleged to CNN Business that she was retaliated against after raising concerns about a lack of adequate safety protections. It is the second time workers at this facility have walked out since the start of the pandemic over alleged retaliation against colleagues who raised concerns about safety. Warsame is at least the third worker who said they were fired at this facility after being vocal about safety.

Regarding Warsame, Amazon spokesperson Jen Crowcroft said in a statement to CNN Business last week: "Like most companies, we have performance expectations for every team member. While we cannot discuss individual performance I can say, associate performance is measured and evaluated over time. We support associates who are not performing to the levels expected with dedicated coaching to help them improve. If their performance does not improve, corrective action is taken up and to termination."

As more than half of US states report an uptick in new coronavirus cases, the threat of catching the virus remains a real concern for many who now have fewer financial protections in place from their employer than earlier on in the pandemic. At the end of May, Amazon ended some of its Covid-19-related benefits instated in March, including $2 extra "hazard pay" per hour and double overtime pay. Its policy that allowed warehouse workers to stay home for an unlimited number of days without pay was discontinued in May.

Worm, the Staten Island worker, told CNN Business that he has "worries for the future." "Once the holiday season comes up, there's usually a lot more people in the building at once, I don't know how they're going to figure that one out."